# Two forms of pre-rendering for Next.js.

## Static Generation (Recommended):

- Next Js, by default, generates HTML for every page in our app **at build time** which are reused on each request.
- This allows the page to be cached by a CDN and indexed by a search engine.
- To make a page use Static Generation, either export the page component ( **Static Generation without data** ), or export getStaticProps (and getStaticPaths if necessary) (**Static Generation with data**).
- It's great for pages that can be pre-rendered ahead of a user's request like blogs, ecommerce product pages, documentation etc.
- You can also use it with Client-side Rendering to bring in additional data.
- In **Production mode**, page is pre-rendered once when we run the build command.
- In **Development mode** page will be pre-rendered for every request (so changes made in code reflect in browser immediately)

### **getStaticProps**

1.

- getStaticProps runs only on the server side
- The function will never run client-side
- The code you write inside getStaticProps won't even be included in the JS bundle that is sent to the browser

2.

- You can write server-side code directly in getStaticProps
- Accessing the file system using the fs module or querying a database can be done inside getStaticProps
- You also don't have to worry about including API keys in getStaticProps as that won't make it to the browser

3.

- getStaticProps is allowed only in a page and cannot be run from a regular component file.
- It is used only for pre-rendering and not client-side data fetching

4.

- getStaticProps should return an object and object should contain a props key which isd an object

5.

- getStaticProps will run at build time
- During development, getStaticProps runs on every request

## Link Pre-fetching

- Any `<Link />` component in the viewport(initially or through scroll) will be prefetched(including the corresponding data) for pages using Static Generation.

- When a page with getStaticProps is pre-rendered at build time, in addition to the page HTML file, Next.js generates a JSON file holding the result of running getStaticProps.

- The JSON file will be used in client-side routing through next/link or next/router.

- When you navigate to a page that's pre-rendered using getStaticProps, Next.js fetches the JSON file(pre-computed at build time) and uses it as props to create the page component client-side.

- Client-side page transitions will not call getStaticProps as only the exported JSON is used.

### Static Generation summary

- Static Generation is a method of pre-rendering where the HTML pages are generatedat build time.
- With or without data.
- Export getStaticProps function for external data.
- HTML, Javascript and a JSON file are generated.
- If you navigate directly to the page route, the HTML is served.
- If you navigate to the page route from a different route, the page is created client side using the Javascript and JSON prefetched from the server.

---

## Server-side Rendering:

The HTML is generated on each request. To make a page use Server-side Rendering, export getServerSideProps. Because Server-side Rendering results in slower performance than Static Generation, use this only if absolutely necessary.
